# Showcase

Examples of various types of analytics and how they are used in the world
of marketing, social media, and other areas.

## [Sentiment Analysis](simple-sentiment/simple-sentiment.md)

Text analytics provides a powerful way to derive meaning from textual data.
It can be used for a number of different things such as sentiment analysis,
topic detection, and predictive analysis. The most common way that text
analytics is used is to extract information about the topic and sentiment of
any given piece of text. This allows companies to examine how their customers
feel about their company or products. Text analytics has been around for a
number of years now, however it has exploded in popularity thanks to recent
advancements in machine learning algorithms and the availability of
affordable cloud computing.

## [Learning Analytics](discussion-board/discussion-board.md)

The world is changing. Communication is moving to digital boards, and
communities are coalescing around these boards. They have also become a
common interactive tool in the learning and teaching environment.

Discussion Boards are an interesting place to examine how people interact
with each other online using different strategies that may be best suited
to their personality or position on a topic. With this notebook, you can
easily visualize and understand the interaction and mood of the discussion.


## [Brand Analytics](brand-analytics/brand-analytics.md)

Monitoring audience behaviour on social media has so many benefits. For
instance, it can help you identify what your target audience likes, what
their preferences are, and what they might be interested in hearing more
about. It can also show you who your competitors are and how well they are
doing compared to you.

## [Customer Churn](customer-churn/00_crisp-dm.md)

Tracking churn rate is a useful tool that businesses can use to improve their
customer retention. A high turnover rate (churn rate) can be detrimental for
any business, as it translates into a significant loss of revenue. In order
to evaluate the reasons for this turnover, it is necessary to track and monitor
the churn rate closely. This example demonstrates the lifecycle of the
Cross-industry Standard Process for Data  Mining (CRISP-DM).

## [Employee Retention](employee-retention.md)

Employee retention is a challenge for many companies. This is due to the
intense market competition and the high demand for talent. A recent study
shows that employees who feel like they are part of a community at work are
more engaged, more productive, and less likely to leave.
